[Music]
if you swim in square waves your life is
in danger
between sharks alien-looking deep-sea
creatures and the fact that we've only
explored about 5% of it there's plenty
to be scared about when it comes to the
ocean and now here's a new fear to add
to the list square waves if you don't
get out of the water as soon as you see
these things your life could be at stake
before you find out all about them don't
forget to click the subscribe button and
ring the bell icon to stay updated here
on the bright side you're probably no
stranger to waves in the ocean little
waves are fun to jump over on the shore
and the bigger ones can be a blast to
surf on but there are some waves that
you really don't ever want to encounter
when you're swimming in the ocean square
waves while they look pretty awesome are
incredibly dangerous so what are these
things anyway and where do they appear
if you look off the western coast of
France you'll see the Isle of Reid this
island is a mere 19 miles long and three
miles wide thanks to its beautiful blue
waters clean sandy beaches and stunning
lighthouses this place is a very popular
vacation spot but perhaps the coolest
part about the island of reef is what
you see just beyond the shore square
waves this strange wave pattern looks
like a giant chessboard over the ocean
many visitors to the island become
captivated by these waves and go too
high up places like nearby lighthouses
to take pictures of this natural
phenomenon they say that when looking
down at these square patterns in the
water it's almost as if there's some
sort of metal grid underneath it and
while these wave patterns are truly
fascinating the people who choose to
enjoy them from afar are doing it right
they know to stay out of the water to
understand how these square waves came
to be it's important to know how waves
occur in the first place
generally waves can travel many miles
over the surface of the water depending
on local winds and weather and even on
days when the weather seems somewhat
calm storms located elsewhere can
sending crashing waves that affect the
surrounding calm waters when waves
travel onto the shores of distant lands
they're called swells this is different
from a wave that occurs from local wind
when two different swells coming from
opposite directions meet it's known as a
cross C this is what generates these
square waves you see near the Isle of
REE this French island is actually
located in a spot where two seas come
together as the two seas with different
swells knock into each other they start
to blend together but they don't blend
the way to bodies of water normally
mixed together say like a waterfall
spilling into a lake because these two
seas have totally different weather
conditions a unique pattern emerges when
they collide they create a Riptide
that's stronger than the average wave
way stronger than what you've probably
experienced at the beach with regular
waves if you were to get stuck in these
crisscross waves chances are you
wouldn't be able to get out while these
waves are one of the reasons why people
flock to this island they can still
expect to enjoy calm relaxing waters
most of the time the cross sea only
occurs during certain times of the year
in specific weather plus it's common
knowledge around Reed to steer clear of
the ocean when these square waves appear
so it's not often that you hear about
anyone getting caught in them because
most people know better and since a lot
of the people on the island are tourists
there are plenty of signs around warning
them to get out of the water during this
time however not everyone gets the memo
there have been a handful of cases where
people got caught in the cross
but thankfully and luckily they managed
to get out safely these square waves
have become somewhat famous over time
given that there's really no other place
in the world that boasts a cross see
like this one in fact no one has ever
spotted square waves anywhere but the
island of Reid however there are swells
that can be found throughout the oceans
of the world and a cross seat can take
place but if the angle they approach
each other at is more shallow the wave
may actually look like it's coming from
the same direction even when it's not
not to mention swells can slowly lose a
momentum as they drift further and
further away so their crest or the top
of the wave appears more round and less
jagged the island of re specific wind
and weather patterns are literally the
perfect storm and create a cross sea
that people can clearly recognize if
you're thinking about planning a trip to
the beautiful island of re just be sure
to check the weather forecast ahead of
time to make sure you'll be able to swim
in the water without risking your life
bon voyage
while the island of Rees the only place
in the world where you can witness such
a clear cross see here are some other
dangerous bodies of water that will have
you saying no thanks to a quick dip one
the boiling Lake the boiling lake on the
island of Dominica is one body of water
you'll definitely want to stay away from
can you guess why well the name of the
lake does kinda give it away
although this boiling Lake may look like
a giant relaxing jacuzzi it's anything
but the lake sits on the mourn Wahpeton
snell Park which is a Dominica World
Heritage Site it's actually a flooded
sinkhole type basin otherwise known as a
fumarole
you'll typically find fumaroles near
volcanoes that let out steam and gas
from their molten lava deep down below
the Earth's crust
throughout history this Lake has gone
through phases of cooling drying and
boiling and it's still quite
unpredictable today while some people do
swim in this lake it's very risky from
high heat to strong gas emissions there
are plenty of reasons to stay out of
boiling lake to West End Grand Bahama
Island a nice relaxing day in the
Bahamas can quickly be ruined by
surrounding people yelling the words run
shark if you agree then you'll probably
want to steer clear of the town of West
End on Grand Bahama Island this deadly
beach is known for being one of the most
shark-infested beaches in the world
however if you are brave enough tourists
are invited to actually interact with
these sharks of course you'll be behind
the bars of a giant cage being
maneuvered and supervised by
professionals not exactly relaxing but
still kind of cool 3 the east and north
coasts of Barbados don't let this
beaches gorgeous sunsets fool you this
place is dangerous while the south and
west coasts of Barbados are ideal for
swimming and snorkeling the east and
north beaches have incredibly strong
tides that can be quite treacherous
these powerful waves are great to admire
from afar but people on the beach should
be careful not to go too far into the
water for condado beach condado beach in
Puerto Rico is a desirable destination
in the city of San Juan
however the beaches mighty waves and
powerful currents make this a very
dangerous place to go swimming its
undertow is strong so surfers should be
incredibly cautious in these waters
while many people still go in the water
here especially tourists it's important
to swim responsibly and to come ashore
if you see the waters are getting rough
your safety should always be priority
number one have you ever seen a cross
see or other dangerous waves before let
everybody know down in the comments
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]